Used as a build tool(turning source code into a runnable or deployable artifact), configuration tool(setting up and maintaining env), dependency manager, provides plugin framework(plugin? -> set of goals that maven can execute)


Details required before setting up a maven project: GAV
groupID: <package-name> (eg. com.tutorial.maven)
artifactID: <artifact-name> (name used for Archive file like .jar, .war)
version: <1.0> (also used for naming Archive file)
(Archive file name is by default the combination of artifactID and version: artifact-name-1.0.jar)


POM: Project Object Model
The pom.xml file is the core of a project's configuration in Maven. It is a single configuration file that contains the majority of information required to build a project in just the way you want. 


Goal:
specific task(an action)

Phase:
stage in the building lifecycle (an ordering mechanism)


Maven Phases:
(default lifecycle phases execution)
1. validate: validate the project is correct and all necessary information is available 
2. compile: compile the source code of the project
3. test: test the compiled source code using a suitable unit testing framework. 
4. package: take the compiled code and package it in its distributed format such as JAR. (JAR? -> Java ARchive is a platform-independent, compressed file format used to bundle multiple java related files for efficient distribution and deployment)
5. integration-test: process and deploy the package if necessary into an environment where integration tests can be run 
6. verify: run any checks to verify the package is valid and meets quality criteria
7. install: install the package into the local repo, for use as a dependency in other project locally
8. deploy: copies the final repo to remote repo for sharing with other devs and projects. 

there are two maven lifecycle of note beyond the default list: 
1. clean: cleans up artifacts build up by prior builds
2. site: generates site documentation for the project by $ mvn site, you can look the documentation generated under target/site

phases are actually mapped to underlying goals. The specific goals executed per phase is dependent upon the packaging type of the project, eg. package executes jar:jar if the project type is JAR, and war:war if package type is WAR(WAR? -> Web Application Archive file is a standard, single compressed file used to package all the components of a web application for deployment on a web server or servlet container)

phases and goals may be executed in sequence
$ mvn clean dependency:copy-dependencies package (clean: phase, copy: goal)

